hey everyone welcome to my youtube
channel my name is wade patterson if
it's the first time landing on a video
please hit that subscribe button it
would really mean a lot to me
this video is all about how to give a
speech as parents of the bride or groom
what expertise do i have to give you
what experience do i have to give you
tips
seeing that i am not a parent myself
that is a good question but i recently
was asked
from
some parents in my city their son was
getting married and they contacted me
they had seen some of my videos on
youtube and they asked me if i would
help coach them through writing and
delivering a speech i did so they
knocked it out of the park and i thought
what a great opportunity to share a
video with some of the concepts and some
of the ideas that went behind planning
their speech hopefully to the benefit of
you when it comes to giving a speech as
the parents of a bride or groom there's
this combination of things you have to
say and things that you want to say
on the have to say side these are the
formalities it's things like thanking
the guests for traveling as far as
they've traveled
talking about
the other family perhaps so whoever your
son or daughter is marrying thanking
them welcoming them to the greater
family things like that these are some
of the formalities that you definitely
want to include not that you don't want
to say those things as well of course
you do but those are things to
definitely make sure you're checking off
as part of your speech but then there's
the want to say there's maybe the great
story that you have about your son or
daughter or the amazing qualities you
see in them so it's a bit of an art form
weaving all of those things in and
making a strong speech as the parents of
a bride or groom when it comes to timing
i like to say a five to seven minute
speech is appropriate i'm a big fan of
the toastmasters club and a lot of
speeches are five to seven minutes
they're that way for a reason it's a
good amount of time to keep an
audience's attention it's enough time to
get into some level of detail but once
you get beyond seven eight minutes it's
a little more difficult to continue to
capture the audience's attention
anything short of five minutes it seems
a little bit light it feels like you
could have added a little bit more now
don't stress about timing i think when
you're practicing it's good to be
mindful of how long the speech is taking
however if it's 4 minutes 55 seconds
that's okay if it's 7 minutes 11 seconds
that's okay as well but keep that in
mind as a solid range for how long your
speed should be i mentioned this before
but practice practice practice it's so
important and that was one of the big
keys when i worked with the local couple
who their son was getting married they
wanted my help with with creating a
speech
that was what they had to really do they
were more the types of people who liked
to wing wing it when it came to speeches
but i really had them practice and go
over so that it wasn't just spur of the
moment because this is an important
moment at the end of the day not to put
too much pressure but it's sort of one
of those things that you just get one
opportunity at therefore you want to
make sure you're making the most of the
moment and doing a really great job and
i'm sure it's going to be incredible
make it from the heart that is another
key here is that don't
don't over research how a speech should
be at the end of the day you want it to
be you you want it to be
all about your personality and
speaking sort of directly to your son or
daughter on what is one of the most
important days of their lives now in my
previous videos when i talk about a
generic speech i say that the
introduction should be a clever sentence
or a teaser that captures the audience's
attention and then leads them in
to the body or the middle of a speech
with a parent of the bride or the groom
speech it's perhaps a little bit
different because of those formalities i
mentioned earlier that you want to thank
everybody therefore your introduction
may be a little bit more
general
than going over the top creative with it
because you have to keep all of those
things in mind
i'm going to use the example of the
couple i helped here locally and how the
father the father wanted to do something
a little bit unique therefore he started
his speech like this
finally
here we are
after eight years
ten months
9 days
12 minutes
and 48 seconds
here we are
that was something that was a little bit
unique and it captured the audience's
attention and it sort of showed a couple
things
one that he's been wanting his son to
get married to this wonderful girl which
he got into later in the speech for that
for such a long time and finally it's
happening we've waited for this the
other thing about it was that the
wedding had to be delayed due to covid
therefore
this was again everyone had kind of felt
like this like here we are finally
moment so that was a great way to break
the ice with the speech
this then allowed the father and the
mother to get into some of the
formalities first off we would like to
thank they thanked the bride's family
for raising such an amazing daughter
then it got into thanking some of their
family members who had traveled a long
way all of those formalities the next
step of the speech gets into the fun
stuff the stuff that you really want to
talk about and those are the stories and
they alternated back and forth telling
stories about their son and they landed
on three short stories
it's tough to get three stories into a
five to seven minute speech but they
were able to do that so that is a piece
of advice if you have nice quick stories
about your son or daughter
that
have some level of humor that is going
to really add to the experience for
everyone who is in attendance toward the
end of the speech all of these stories
especially if they're heavy on the humor
should culminate in
a very nice
thing that you are saying to your son or
daughter to wrap it up you want them
to feel incredibly special and well sure
you're going to get some laughter all of
that should be kind-hearted humor that
is
sort of adorable rather than
of course making fun of them you the
last thing of any wedding speech is you
want somebody to to feel too embarrassed
or anything like that but humor is an
important element as well and those
things that you would tell stories that
you've told all of your family in the
past about your son or daughter that
always gets laughter and you know
they're okay with that is the kind of
material that is really going to go over
well in this type of speech before you
get to the end of the speech
you want to speak directly to that
person who your son or daughter is
marrying you want to talk about their
great qualities why you're so happy that
they are going to be joining your family
the things that you love about them
maybe a quick story about that person
too how you knew right away hey this
person is going to be part of the family
based on and then you tell the story
there's a lot here to fit into that five
or seven minutes but if you're able to
do so effectively it's going to be
really effective and it's going to flow
nicely and it's going to be a memorable
speech of the evening when it comes to
the conclusion i always like speeches to
come full circle the way that the father
who i helped out here locally wrapped up
his speech was the same way he started
talking about the eight years x number
of months minutes days and then checked
his watch again and this many seconds
and i think it was a few more minutes
than he had said at the beginning of the
speech to add in for how long the speech
was he wrapped it up by saying
i'm so happy we're finally here and then
it cheers to everybody and it went over
really well the speech came full circle
he got a lot of compliments afterward
that
so many people really enjoyed it and i
think that this is a really strong
formula to summarize the template i like
to suggest is start off with an
introduction something that captures the
audience's attention right from the
get-go then transition into those
formalities the things you kind of have
to say the things like thanking guests
who have traveled a long way thanking
everyone for being there thanking the
other family the family of the person
your son or daughter is marrying is a
really important one and then you get
into
a story or maybe a couple of stories
about your son or daughter
and then wrapping up with those great
qualities about them then before the end
spending some time talking about that
person they are marrying all of the
amazing qualities they have and then
wrap it up with the conclusion and if
you can make that conclusion tie back to
the introduction to make it come full
circle
that is phenomenal regardless i know
you're going to do an amazing job on
your speech as parents of the bride or
groom
thank you so much for watching this
video
please subscribe to my channel i would
really appreciate it i have a lot of
videos about wedding speeches
whether it's emceeing a wedding or doing
a speech as the best man anything along
those lines so check out my channel and
i'll see you soon